@document.meta
title: appearance
description: NixOS config appearance documentation
authors: matteocavestri
categories: 
created: 2024-09-04T17:52:33+0100
updated: 2024-09-04T18:14:23+0100
version: 1.1.1
@end

* Appearance (userSettings.appearance)  
  The *Appearance* section contains the system's appearance settings. These configurations affect both the user side and the system side, but only if a graphical interface is configured.  
  The /system-targets/ are:  
  -- LightDM  
  -- Gnome  
  -- NixOS Icons  
  -- Console  
  The /home-targets/ are:  
  -- KDE  
  -- Gnome  
  -- XFCE  
  -- GTK  
  -- Kitty  
  -- Mangohud  
  -- Lazygit  
  -- Fzf  
  -- Firefox  
  -- Bat  
  -- Btop  
  -- Hyprpaper  
  On the user side, there are also specific configurations for *Gtk* and *QT*.  
    The /GTK/ customizations are always used when a GUI is in use. They are used to configure the cursor theme, icon theme, and to enable the adwaita-gtk3 theme for gtk3 programs. In addition, it selects /prefer-dark/ as the color scheme (this helps to have a dark theme for Flatpak applications).  
    The /QT/ customizations are only used if /KDE/ is not used as the Desktop Environment. This configuration is used to modify the appearance of QT programs in a GTK environment using the adwaita-qt theme, qt5ct, and qt6ct.

** Theme (userSettings.appearance.theme)  
   This setting changes the color theme (base16) of the system, all programs, and changes the wallpaper (Currently, the configuration applies to *Hyprland*, *KDE*, *Gnome*, *Budgie* regarding wallpapers). All /GTK/ and /QT/ programs are affected by this configuration, and the /home-targets/ are affected in an even more specific manner. System configurations are available to target the Console and display managers like Gdm and LightDM.  
   SDDM has a separate configuration and is set to follow both the system theme and the wallpaper using the /sddm-chili-theme/.  
   LightDM, on the other hand, is influenced by the theme's polarity and switches from /Adwaita/ to /adwaita-Dark/ depending on whether the selected theme is light or dark.  
   All themes can be found in the */themes* directory.

** Font (userSettings.appearance.font)  
   This setting changes the system font. It is recommended to use a *Nerd Font* since various parts of the system require it, such as the shell configuration and the text editor.  
   The configuration consists of:  
   -- *userSettings.appearance.font.name* which specifies the name of the font to use.  
   -- *userSettings.appearance.font.package* which specifies the package to use.

** Cursor (userSettings.appearance.cursor)  
   This setting changes the system cursor and affects all WM/DE.  
   The configuration consists of:  
   -- *userSettings.appearance.cursor.name* which specifies the name of the cursor to use.  
   -- *userSettings.appearance.cursor.package* which specifies the package to use.

** Icons (userSettings.appearance.icons)  
   This setting changes the system icons and affects all WM/DE.  
   The configuration consists of:  
   -- *userSettings.appearance.icons.name* which specifies the name of the icons to use.  
   -- *userSettings.appearance.icons.package* which specifies the package to use.

* Desktop Environment customization  
** KDE  
** Gnome  
** Budgie

* Window Manager customization  
** Hyprland  

* Tested Packages
** Fonts
   @@table
   Name | Package
   -
   Inconsolata Nerd Font | pkgs.inconsolata-nerfont
   FiraCode Nerd Font | pkgs.fira-code-nerfont
   @end
** Icons
   @table
   Name | Package
   -
   Papirus | pkgs.papirus-icon-theme
   Adwaita | pkgs.gnome.adwaita-icon-theme
   @end
** Cursors
   @table
   Name | Package
   -
   Numix | pkgs.numix-cursor-theme
   catppuccin-mocha-dark-cursors | pkgs.catppuccin-cursors.mochaDark
   @end
